Part2 vincent (#7)
ese5160/a14g-final-submission-t26-circuit-crusaders: README.md

## 1. Video Presentation

## 2. Project Summary
+ ### Device Description:
  +  #### What problem is your device solving?
    
      The HelMate project is designed to significantly enhance safety for two-wheeler riders by encouraging consistent helmet use. The device can be attached or detached from any helmet and connects to the rider's mobile phone via Bluetooth to deliver navigational directions through haptic feedback motors on both sides of the helmet. It also features automatic or manual turn signals visible to following vehicles, enhancing communication and safety on the road.

>       Additionally, the helmet is equipped with a brake light that activates when the rider stops and deactivates when in motion, thanks to an onboard accelerometer that detects changes in movement. This system not only signals stopping but also aids in crash detection by sensing sudden movements, potentially mitigating severe accidents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Additionally, the helmet is equipped with a brake light that activates when the rider stops and deactivates when in motion, thanks to an onboard accelerometer that detects changes in movement.
```

      For security, the helmet detects unusual movements to trigger alerts for potential theft of the helmet or bike. It also includes a Blind Spot Monitoring System with IR-based sensors to detect objects outside the rider’s direct line of sight, reducing the risk of accidents with unseen vehicles or obstacles.

>       Riders can control and customize the helmet’s features, such as theft detection, turn signals, and brake lights, through a centralized dashboard. This dashboard also displays vital information including theft alerts, accelerometer data, and crash detection notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Riders can control and customize the helmet’s features, such as theft detection, turn signals, and brake lights, through a centralized dashboard. This dashboard also displays vital information including theft alerts, accelerometer data.
```

  + #### How do you use the Internet so augment your device functionality?
      
      Real-Time Data Processing and Accessibility: Using Node-RED hosted on an Azure VM allows for the efficient processing and management of real-time data from the helmet. This setup ensures that data such as navigation directions, motion alerts, and crash or theft-detection data are handled promptly and reliably. This allows users to interact with their helmet or check its status from anywhere.

>       User Interface and Interaction: A Node-RED dashboard provides a user-friendly interface for riders to monitor various metrics like battery status, theft alerts, and navigation signals. This dashboard is accessible via the Internet, which offers convenience and ease of use. The system can send alerts and notifications directly to the rider's smartphone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      User Interface and Interaction: A Node-RED dashboard provides a user-friendly interface for riders to monitor various metrics like theft alerts, navigation signals, current mode, and obstacle sensor status. This dashboard is accessible via the Internet, which offers convenience and ease of use. The system can send alerts and notifications directly to the rider's smartphone.
```

  + #### How do you use the Internet so augment your device functionality?
      
      Real-Time Data Processing and Accessibility: Using Node-RED hosted on an Azure VM allows for the efficient processing and management of real-time data from the helmet. This setup ensures that data such as navigation directions, motion alerts, and crash or theft-detection data are handled promptly and reliably. This allows users to interact with their helmet or check its status from anywhere.

      User Interface and Interaction: A Node-RED dashboard provides a user-friendly interface for riders to monitor various metrics like battery status, theft alerts, and navigation signals. This dashboard is accessible via the Internet, which offers convenience and ease of use. The system can send alerts and notifications directly to the rider's smartphone.

      Firmware and Software Updates: Through the Internet, updates to the helmet’s software or firmware can be pushed remotely, so that all users have the latest features and security updates without needing physical access to a service center.

+ ### Inspiration:
  

>   The inspiration for "HelMate" came from Saurabh's personal experiences while biking an impressive 10,000 kilometers during his internship in California. Saurabh encountered many challenges, such as navigating busy roads while maintaining focus, dealing with visibility issues during night rides, and the constant threat of accidents due to blind spots and sudden stops. These experiences highlighted a significant need for enhanced safety measures for bikers. Meanwhile, Binh noted that modern cars are equipped with advanced safety features like navigation assistance, blind spot detection that significantly reduce the risk of accidents but are conspicuously absent in motorcycle gear. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The inspiration for "HelMate" came from Saurabh's personal experiences while biking an impressive 900 miles during his internship in California. Saurabh encountered many challenges, such as navigating busy roads while maintaining focus, dealing with visibility issues during night rides, and the constant threat of accidents due to blind spots and sudden stops. These experiences highlighted a significant need for enhanced safety measures for bikers. Meanwhile, Binh noted that modern cars are equipped with advanced safety features like navigation assistance and blind spot detection that significantly reduce the risk of accidents but are conspicuously absent in motorcycle gear. 
```

Reviewer: @nguye377  Added few comments, rest looks good, will approve after you resolve comments
